Notes on Colombia (Gran Colombia/Bolivarian People's Federation)

Theme: Colombia is a militaristic radical republic keen on exporting the revolution, like the French Republic or the early Soviet Russia.

History:

Simon Bolivar kept the larger republic (Colombia, Ecuador, Panama and Venezuela) together until things stabilised.
The power of the church remained strong but liberals fought to control them.
Wars were fought between Colombia and Peru over the Ecuadorian borderlands but neither prevailed.
During the 1850s, a period of struggle between liberals and conservatives resulted in civil war.
By the 1860s the liberals had won and passed an anti-church constitution.
By the 1890s, working class support had diminished for the ruling liberals and a radical movement grew in strength. Business sided more with the liberals while the church remained politically insignificant.
In 1916, election fraud by the ruling liberals resulted in riots and the unrest grew into a civil war: liberals backed by the Centroamericans and Peruvians, against a coalition of workers, peasants and conscript soldiers.
In 1920, the liberals were defeated by the radicals. With the new Bolivarian Federation diplomatically isolated, the Centroamericans and Peruvians invaded.
The experience gained by the Bolivarian Army during the civil war allowed them to defeat the invaders despite inferior firepower and enemy control of the seas.
In 1922, French intervention to guard the Panama Canal forced a reconciliation between Colombia and the URCA, with some occupied land in Panama and the Galapogos Islands being lost.
By 1924, the government of Peru fled to Argentina and a new Bolivarian Republic was established there.
In 1932, Bolivarian troops marched into British Guyana, partly to seize the valuable aluminium, partly as a military exercise, and partly to try to achieve better recognition with France.

The governments of Argentina and Brazil watch their expansionist neighbour with consternation, and plan its containment. 

Secularisation:

Both the liberal and radical governments of Colombia have followed secularisation policies. The church has little power.

When the Bolivarian Federation was proclaimed in 1920, many cities named for saints were renamed (eg like the secular Turkish republic that defeated the Ottomans):

San Fernando de Apure -> Ciudad Heroico de Apure
San Francisco de Quito -> Ciudad Heroico de Quito
San Cristóbal -> Ciudad Heroico de Mahecha (named for Carlos Mahecha, a unionist involved in the 1928 strike that resulted in the United Fruit Company killing many Colombians...in Deluge, he is killed in the civil war)
San Juan de Pasto -> Ciudad Heroico de Galeras (named for a nearby mountain)
Santa Marta -> Ciudad Heroico de Flor del Trabajo (named for another Colombian unionist, María Cano, and her nickname, Flower of Labour)
Santa Ana de los Cuatro Ríos de Cuenca -> Ciudad Heroico de Cuenca
Santo Domingo de los Colorados -> Ciudad Heroico de los Colorados

Internal reform:
The military seized power from the Socialist Party following a period of repression of internal enemies. The stated goal of the coup was to restore democracy.
The new military government has a leftist slant but it remains to be seen if it will actually cede power back to a civilian government
Path 1: social democratic. The military allows free elections to take place and the Socialists return to government. 
Path 2: liberal republic. The military presses the scales in favour of business, and a liberal government forms.
Path 3: ultranationalist. The military sides with conservative landowners and continues the state of emergency indefinitely.
