Notes on America (Commonwealth Of America)

Theme: America is a republic with voting enabled only for the wealthy. Wallace (the current president) seeks to reform America into a liberal utopia where big business reigns supreme.

History:

Without the beloved washington to direct america in its founding days instead that responsibilty had been placed on the abusive elites than refused to move america to a true democarcy prefering to maintain power for themselves and proclaiming an oligarchical republic.
This continued much through early america though for a short time some economic and political reforms were introduced, in very limited form that is. 
When the Bourbons exiled themselves to louisana they requested the then smaller america for economic and military support. The deal signed by the two minor powers was the transfer of the northern lands to the commonwealth and a mutual respect between the nations and the previous mentioned military and economic support.
Whilst the European hegomonyies tore each other apart during the specatcle that was the great war america sat contently profiting of the spoils of war as american made guns found themselves in almost every european battlefield and even across the globe.
Today Henry Wallace pushes reform after reform upsetting a great deal of the american elites though (unsurprisingly) gaining public support at record highs as a result. The wealthy know that if they oust Wallace the entire nation will march to congress.

Aristocracy:

Very little power is given to the common american especially due to the aristocracy holding vast monopolies across america and having a more than permanent position in congress.

Cult Of Washington: 

Since George Washington's death an unofficial political drone mindset has developed across america where being even remotely connected to washington will guarentee you fame and power. With most direct descendants being in the military and/or government.

American Slavery: 

Do I need to explain this?